Add IntelliJ support to supported extensions (#1258)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/extensions/semgrep-intellij.md

---
slug: semgrep-intellij
append_help_link: true
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

# Semgrep IntelliJ extension

> [Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev/) accelerates your security journey by swiftly scanning code and package dependencies for known issues, software vulnerabilities, and detected secrets with unparalleled efficiency. By default, the Semgrep IntelliJ extension scans code whenever you change or open files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev/) swiftly scans code and package dependencies for known issues, software vulnerabilities, and detected secrets. Run Semgrep in your developer environment with the IntelliJ extension to catch code issues as you type. By default, the Semgrep IntelliJ extension scans code whenever you change or open files.
```
As per Chinmay's observation further down the doc, I've suggested some trims to the more markety bits and focused on the functionality.

:::info Prerequisites

The Semgrep IntelliJ extension communicates with Semgrep command-line interface (CLI) to run scans. Install Semgrep CLI before you can use the extension. To install Semgrep CLI:

```sh
# For macOS
$ brew install semgrep

# For Ubuntu/WSL/Linux/macOS
$ python3 -m pip install semgrep

# To try Semgrep without installation run via Docker

> $ docker run --rm -v "${PWD}:/src" returntocorp/semgrep semgrep

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is relevant for the extension

```
:::

## Quick start

1. Install the Semgrep extension:

>    -  Visit [Semgrep's page on the Jet Brains Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22622-semgrep).

Reviewer 3: JetBrains instead of Jet Brains

   -  In IntelliJ: **Settings/Preferences > Plugins > Marketplace > Search for `semgrep-intellij` > Install**. You may need to restart IntelliJ for the Semgrep extension to be installed.

2. Sign in: Press <kbd>Ctrl+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (Windows) or <kbd>⌘Command+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (macOS) and sign in to Semgrep Cloud Platform by selecting the following command:
   ```
   Sign in with Semgrep
   ```
3. Test the extension by pressing <kbd>Ctrl+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (Windows) or <kbd>⌘Command+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (macOS) and run the following command:
   ```
   Scan workspace with Semgrep
   ```

> 4. See Semgrep findings: Hold the pointer over the code that has the red underline.

Reviewer 3: Does the "hover over a line to see more information about the finding" work for IntelliJ?

Reviewer: @milanwilliams is SME for this, so I'll defer to her, but I assumed so as she wrote it.

Reviewer 2: yea it should, line can also be different colors (highlighted yellow in intellij)

- `Sign in with Semgrep`: Sign up or log in to the Semgrep Cloud Platform (this command opens a new window in your browser). When you sign up, you can automatically scan with Semgrep [Code](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-code/), [Supply Chain](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-supply-chain/), and [Secrets](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-secrets/). Alternatively, you can log in through your command-line interface by running `semgrep login`.
- `Sign out of Semgrep`: Log out of Semgrep Cloud Platform. If you are logged out, you lose access to Semgrep Supply Chain and Semgrep Secrets. Alternatively, you can sign out through your command-line interface by running `semgrep logout`.
- `Scan workspace with Semgrep`: Scan files that have been changed since the last commit in your current workspace.
- `Scan workspace with Semgrep (Including Unmodified Files)`: Scan all files in the current workspace.

:::tip
You can also click the Semgrep icon in the IntelliJ toolbar to quickly access all available commands.
:::

## Features

### Scan with Semgrep Code, Supply Chain, and Secrets 

> Sign in to get access to Semgrep Code, Supply Chain, and Secrets. Scan your code and package dependencies for known issues, software vulnerabilities, and detected secrets. Get inline results and problem highlighting.

Reviewer 3: Does it find Secrets too?

Reviewer 2: No, the extension doesn't support supply chain, secrets, or pro rn

### Automatic scanning

When you open a file, Semgrep scans it right away.

### Rule Quick Links

> Want to go to the definition of a rule? Hover over a match and click the link!

Reviewer 3: this feels like a marketing message but if @s-santillan is okay with it, I am okay too :) 
ALT: 
Hover over a match and click the link.

Reviewer: Good catch, let's stick with the ALT that Chinmay suggested.

   ```
   Sign in with Semgrep
   ```
3. Test the extension by pressing <kbd>Ctrl+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (Windows) or <kbd>⌘Command+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (macOS) and run the following command:
   ```
   Scan workspace with Semgrep
   ```
4. See Semgrep findings: Hold the pointer over the code that has the red underline.

:::info Feature maturity
Semgrep's IntelliJ extensions are in **public beta**. Please join the [Semgrep community Slack workspace](http://go.semgrep.dev/slack) and let the Semgrep team know if you encounter any issues.
:::

## Supported Jet Brains products

Semgrep's IDE extension is available in many Jet Brains products: 

- AppCode
- Aqua
- CLion
- DataSpell
- DataGrip
- GoLand
- IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate
- PhpStorm
- PyCharm Professional
- Rider
- RubyMine
- RustRover
- WebStorm

:::caution

IntelliJ extension does not support: 
- IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition

:::

## Commands

Run Semgrep extension commands through the IntelliJ Command Palette. You can access the Command Palette by pressing <kbd>Ctrl+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (Windows) or <kbd>⌘Command+⇧Shift+A</kbd> (macOS) on your keyboard. 

> - `Sign in with Semgrep`: Sign up or log in to the Semgrep Cloud Platform (this command opens a new window in your browser). When you sign up, you can automatically scan with Semgrep [Code](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-code/), [Supply Chain](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-supply-chain/), and [Secrets](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-secrets/). Alternatively, you can log in through your command-line interface by running `semgrep login`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Sign in with Semgrep`: Sign up or log in to the Semgrep Cloud Platform (this command opens a new window in your browser). Alternatively, you can log in through your command-line interface by running `semgrep login`.
```
There is a slight implication that the extension scans for those products, including Supply Chain and Secrets, when it does not. Let's just focus on the extension's capabilities for now.
